so we're going to move to another region
of the world so first though I'm
claiming Renault by working at the Swiss
Institute of Technology in an Institute
for area in global studies and I've been
living in China for years and I'm
currently doing research there about
like especially the southern region I'm
going to talk about is Shenton and the
talk is called like the making of
changjun which is basically I mean I'm
pretty sure you've heard about the city
but I wanted to like give some context
and I think it's a very important place
or today it's like defining many many
things in technology and I'm I'm as I'm
here in San Francisco I wanted to talk
about that and yeah I call it a
transforming experience of technology or
nerves because I think is really
something very important and I will
explain why so first thing is exchanging
is know of course for the being the word
center of consumer electronics so these
are some pictures I took there they're
basically does gigantic market in the in
the middle of the city where all the
electronics are so like so it's like a
district with like many buildings you
know like you can walk around and
there's a lot of like I mean cable how
desk drones whatever electronics is sold
there and exported around the planet and
of course the main reason is because
it's made there so I given this computer
I have like the is made engine in this
city so I want to talk a bit about that
and give some you know inside in context
about why I think it's interesting to be
there and to understand what's happening
what the first thing to know about the
city is like it's pretty new so that's -
picture 1978 and today I must I mean
it's a bit this picture is a bit old I
guess it's like five min five years ago
but that's a city that Toyota get off
the ground in like a few years so that's
the main narrative that people know
about the city he was a fisherman
village back then like at the end of the
crucial revolution and yeah and I know
it's like I think it's like 11 million
people living there and I guess a
vibrant city really big it's one of the
richest city in China and and that's
where like many
famous companies are and this yeah and
yeah
so one thing I wanted to start with that
because our last month's he was the 14th
birthday of the city so to give you a
sense the happy birthday from John
that's the first thing I wanted to say
and and yeah I just a short video to
show you what the city looks likes today
I guess um and that was the small
ceremony put together for a 14th
birthday between a few images to give
you some context so Shannon right that's
the name of the city so that well it
looks like today after being like it's
already like smaller and unknown city
for years and so well I I want to talk a
bit about the region so the new name
that the the the Chinese government as
part of this big technological
development is calling no this war area
the greater Bay Area so I think I needed
to talk about that here right and of
course there's a reference to the bay
area here and Greater China because as
you see and this war region is like
hissing engine is right by the border of
Hong Kong and this world Delta so it's
called the Pearl River Delta like the
Pearl River is going down there and then
Hong Kong as a as a very specific
history and it's a very specific region
so people tend to think about China some
on your city but it's already is really
like this ecosystem of many different
things so for instance you have like for
Eagle system Hong Kong Macau mainland
China and Shenzhen that is the special
economic zone so they have all their
main features like I mean fiscal and all
that sing the exact so in the greater
Bay Area plan of the changing of the
Chinese government there's like it's
basically nine cities I mean you know
Macao - hi dong-gwon gentleman come true
dong-gwon Shan Shan Hong Kong and two
other one and this tent city all
together is almost 100 million people
living there today so it's a huge region
like enormous with like lots of things
and it's really famous the holder city
with currency is Guangzhou there is a
very famous and old city in China
and this region was like basically the
earth of the made in China select is a
really industrial region full of
factories making all things possible and
imaginable and and is and yet it's like
40 percent of global like container
traffic is there it's coming from there
so at 40 percent of the word traffic and
and people tend to sing Iraq China is
new but it's actually a very long
history of global trade this is just
some drawings from the 19th century but
then you can think about the history of
Hong Kong right as the other really the
trace of the British trade colonial
empire that cinder and made made what is
today this region at least in many
regards in terms of all the capital has
been there and and so there's a long
history that is really a reflection of
yeah what has shaped the world in the
last 200 or 300 years and is unfolding
continue to unfold today and of course
one of a very important thing that is
during all the years like I would say
since the Second World War you know the
Communist Party has been ruling China
and one of the main thing he has been
investing is the infrastructure and with
this idea with this very Marxist I would
say and like very yeah very Marxist idea
that infrastructure will produce
superstructure that produce culture I
would say if I sum it up very quickly so
the main idea was existed the war
generation of what is called the red
engineers is the the generation of
Chinese leadership that of ruled China
for like the past 40 years and they were
all engineers basically so they were
focused on a grid infrastructure for the
country like roads especially like water
systems and of course cities that are
emerging
enormous cities all over China today and
so that's sort of the background that
really huge focus on breeding up
technologies as well of course in this
process and in changing in that regard
has played a very important role so this
is a picture of Deng Xiaoping
which was the leader
at the end of the Cultural Revolution
when more they don't die basically and
there's this big question of like what
what are they going to do with the
country and of course the country was
like Torre planned economy very
communist I like old school with no even
no private property and and they decided
to use changjun as a buffer for like
experimenting with the Kleber ization
open market opening markets and and so
they defined this zone around Hong Kong
that was really like a capitalistic for
centuries already with the biggest bank
in Asia and they did the Jordi's down at
the border to make a buffer and make all
the experiments think they could do with
like markets investment so hosting
foreign investments and all that stuff
that's where so it's called shinjang
special economic zone and that's an
experiment that's been ongoing for since
yeah the 80s and we say when was 40
years and sorry yeah sorry and yeah so
that was really and the main idea behind
it was like do this experiment evaluate
them see what works well out of danger
and then replayed the replicate them all
over the country so Sean John is really
the model city of China in many regards
so that's how he was conceived
politically and that's what his theory
is today and there's no working okay
sorry yeah that's better
I wanted some like robots dancing so so
so that's part of the actually this show
as part of a yearly TV show that is like
an enormous TV show for the chinese new
year and last year they had this
gigantic ballot of robots dancing just
like pretty amazing with like singer I
mean yeah whatever I wanted to show that
and then what a main Syria but about a
Russian Johnny
despite being this like enormous
economic and political experiment is
like notice like hosting some like
gigantic firms of the leading
I mean on the global scale are leading
in that sectors of economy a very
different sector so of course Foxconn is
is the most famous this is Taiwanese
company but he has grown a lot of things
in inch engine including raw power plant
which is the most famous found with
people making up Erland samsung product
third with thousand yes but so 10 cent
within leading energy the biggest social
networks in Asia and also I mean because
payment system in the world online
payment system and video game company in
the world as well
Huawei is is the biggest telecom
equipment manufacturer in the world as
well
PYD is one of the biggest firm in
electric cars in the world that's we're
doing mostly buses trucks electric
trucks there are all over the world as
well
d gia is the biggest drone company in
the world and is the biggest Beijing
genomic Institute is like DNA sequencing
in genomics and it's also big the
leading company in the world in that
domain and ping and is the biggest
insurance company in Asia first
capitalization in Asia so just to give
you some context that this city despite
I mean what has become in these few
years there so really leader
unlike many domains of technology that I
mean I'm in Europe they even not they
even not industrial sector yet they even
doesn't exist so like to own in genomics
and all that stuff and it's interesting
to look a bit at the history so at the
end of the 90s I mean at the beginning
of the 90s there are this big rush in
China of course the market was happening
and people were like allowed to open
companies so the Chinese called it luck
yeah hi which means jumping in the sea
right
you know like go and many people went to
Shenzhen to like make it like really
like a bit like I think California few
years ago I mean like go there and start
companies and and build up things and
that was the time that the two main
internet infrastructure in the words Bay
where we're on their way we're starting
so on one side a senior familiar with
that which is information highway it's
nice picture two different styles as you
can see and and and the other main in
Armus project of Internet infrastructure
that's a garden project from the Chinese
government with John's I mean it was a
president back there and was an engineer
in a telecommunication and so so at the
time that this enormous infrastructure
needed to be built and needed the
companies that would actually
manufacture all that stuff and then of
course China was like and especially in
general the region became the hearth of
like the core of like manufacturing
dislike so-called global village that
was emerging so this is a micro
soldering chain as you can see many all
over the place they're actually yeah
it's all during like PCBs and stuff and
what was really interesting I think what
people often don't really want me very
very interesting singing shine Chinese
the people that built this this I mean
the people that built Internet were not
only engineers those are two pictures I
took in a watch on beso in the in the
center of Shenzhen where they're all
these like electronics markets and I
wanted to show two things basically
those are like components but you have
two very important thing here is like
the tea right it's out on China so
people drink tea and the mummy in this
part of like descrition business
everything cheese core and this is the
culture there and the family of course
like the kids are playing around because
all these businesses like of breeding
phones how these SIM cards cables are
not made by crack engineers very skilled
but by people actually migrated there 10
or 20 years ago and figure out they
shouldn't start business open a company
and they needed to learn into you know
manufacturer objects and component
digital objects so like it's mostly
based on on family networks and I will
explain a bit more about that but of
course when all those people arrived
there they they had no knowledge no
prior knowledge many about technology
many of there were farmers basically
they were like coming from really far in
the countryside and arriving in
someplace walking factories and they are
to learn so huge part of the Chinese
learning or we say at that point was I
taking pieces of technology opening them
understand how it works and I was
recently Angelica story I wasn't in
joining on of the biggest design houses
there and there are 3,000 designer they
make like thousands of product a year
and I was in the boss office talking to
him and he had this like car engine on
the floor totally open and he was
explaining to me how he was to enjoy his
company when the new designer and was
entering the company they had to
actually dismantle objects and explain
how it works as a process for like
getting started in the company and lots
of lots of learning happen like that
because xiangjian was a new CD there's
no university there no there's like one
the shin-chan university exists and
there's a lots of life all over the
world like university that want to come
there but few years ago last year like
have nothing so people had to learn with
their own ways so you know they did a
lot of this which led to a lot of like I
also learned how to reproduce thing a
whole can you like make something
similar of course which I mean from this
side of the world is called a contra
fading industry but it really is like of
course like replicating something that
is actually super complicated
I mean if you try to do an iPhone I
would say you should succeed you should
be able to sell it because it's like so
complicated so so that's my point of
view we can discuss that what I was
saying is like so any China is like this
is this very concept that means I mean
in Europe maybe I guess the same here we
have the idea of like real product and
fake product where in China does that
cool cup of description of the quality
of the fake and they have this ranking
that is funny I wrote it there is like a
whoa is the so you have the very bad
copy and then ah who is sort of good hey
is like good hey he's like very good and
so people are like is we're a which is
like five a so you cannot make any
difference you can buy ray-ban glasses
that five a maybe it's even the same
factory that does it so I mean but all
those for the idea behind those factory
was like
it's all dislike distributed network of
people there are basically families
so like the cousin of this guy is doing
I would say screens and this guy is
doing buttons and this guy's batteries
so it's just coming together as a very
organic environment you all do Shenzhen
and also all the Delta around you know
anything don't wanna all the factory so
they can assemble really quickly all
sort of things and of course we are try
out sort of things and I mean it comes
yeah and you know that I also invent
actually lots of new things that are
solving new problems this is a fun fun
abode like from from from Accra in Ghana
you know West Africa is like it's a fun
that is a very huge battery like really
enormous you can actually shop charge
phones on that phone
it's very funny it's like a power bank
fund and then you know yes yes yes if
you look here you see there's a USB port
so you can plug USB on it on the phone
to charge something and he's is shipped
with a lamp USB lamp and the reason why
is because in Accra in Ghana there's a
lot of power cuts the electric system is
not reliable and so people having this
sort of fun they can like actually have
a porous was everywhere with their fund
so like there's also like for SIM cards
because in that region
there a key people have different
operators and is cheaper when you call
with the same so like for SIM cards a
big battery all that stuff are like
really custom-made for there and I mean
it's not like it's a huge engineering
process with like Design Thinking
workshop it's just like more a guy
arriving there and being like oh wait we
should assemble this like power bank
with these phones we will be input for
SIM cards so is that coding is cruising
in Guangdong and you know fetching for
the pieces assembling them and I
basically keeping the farm straight from
Shenzhen to our crop putting them on the
market and you have a product ready and
then sell them so like the product cycle
is actually different in whatever we can
learn some design school or something
and also it's a way I mean it's like a
zoo yeah industrialized addressing
problems that nobody is really
addressing because I mean Apple doesn't
care about workers or power in either so
and it let's do like this famous sing
that is Shan Zhai maybe we have heard of
that all sorts of weird fans like in and
weird objects that are basically Shan
Zhai in Chinese means like low-quality
knockoff basically means made in China
for the Chinese and yeah I mean that's
pretty much true and so we have started
this collection is a project that I've
been working on with this innovation
corrective out corrective in Paris that
is showing some pieces here we have been
collecting all this weird phone and so
like there's a phone is a riser or like
some phones that have like many
different features that you can see
Marvel fans or like I mean we had like
100 of them they're all different and
they serve different purposes some of
our just like decorative things but also
some are like there's a lot of funds in
China for like elderly people because
they need a bigger you know that bigger
keyboard more videos like you know to
hold their daughter or their son a
simpler simpler interaction and of
course a big companies no one to address
this like small niche markets so like
there's this manufacturer that's just
see the market assemble the signature
pet which is like I'm interesting in
terms of who it works as a as a
distributed network of manufacturer
there's really no design house and like
we cannot know there's no signature
there's no brain most of the time and
yeah of course all this capacity of like
assembling things are like a major
advantage in terms of like following the
pace of like oh technology is evolving
so if you look at like VidCon or like
watching in general like all the mining
of course have been assemble around
there because all the infrastructure to
make computer is there so as soon as you
have the CPU you have to chip then you
know you just end fans
and like more powerful marrying power up
power like supply and all that stuff so
this is byte combined in China I mean
it's just an illustration really like
the pace of the city is like so fast
it's like basically a product there like
for major designers is a designer in a
year it goes around like sixty to eighty
products a year because it's just like
you know they didn't know all them I'll
do the suppliers and so they just go Pig
assemble and shape it and so the pace is
like crazy incredibly fast so of course
like its provider fast and super Frank
yeah doesn't need for mining then you
know is delivered like a month later or
something and of course like more and
more people are going there and
especially from all over the world this
is a map that is published by seed
studio which is a major a big open
source hardware manufacturer from from
Shenzhen and so it's like a tourist map
so that people are like getting like
going there getting tours like us so you
know I mean all most of the hardware
Kickstarter campaign has run there you
know like run from from incubators in
Shenzhen because they have you have all
if you're in Hong Kong you can register
companies then all the regulation border
regulation export infrastructure of
course manufacturing and access to
markets that are very hard to access
from here including China but also all
the export market the rest of the world
that is like yeah Middle East Africa
sort of America extra so it becomes a
major destination for people to go there
and learn who make technology and of
course the government in that is taking
this very seriously and there was a big
plan that you may have heard that is
called made in China 2025 that is the
major plan for China modernization
industrial reform and modernization and
and in this in this plan the maker or
the figure of the maker in Chinese
called Tron kueh they created that word
from the drawing is a creativity and
coup is like a person so it's like the
creative person has become the core of
the the Chinese policies for many years
no it's like 20 it started in 2015 this
is a TV show is basically a kickstarter
TV show when they River I mean was just
like there's there's major appliance in
like taking the city of Shenzhen and
clear model from it and it was already
the model of Shenzhen was already
exported all over China but no is like
exported I mean there's a lot of
countries that want to replicate that
model and China as I saw in our
project of like infrastructure all over
you may have heard that as well Digital
Silk Road one belt one Road this project
of lack infrastructure over the world so
of course China is in Shenzhen
particular is already exporting lots of
this technology all over the planet and
it's shaping the new spaces in many many
different countries around the world
that is going the same paths as I came
from that developing countries I would
say people call it so yeah I think I
stopped here thanks for attention
thanks for having me here
[Applause]